This next question comes from Advate
Prasad in New York. He writes, "Today,
Berkshire holds over $300 billion in
cash and short-term investments,
representing about 27% of total assets,
a historically high figure compared to
the 13% average over the last 25 years.
This has also led Berkshire to
effectively own nearly 5% of the entire
US Treasury market. Beyond the need for
liquidity to meet insurance obligations,
is the decision to raise cash primarily
a d-risking strategy in response to high
market
valuations? Or is it also a deliberate
effort to position Birkshar's balance
sheet for a smooth smoother leadership
transition, providing Greg Ael with
maximum flexibility and a clean slate
for future capital allocation decisions?
And I will add one line from another
shareholder, Mike Conway, who asks, "Are
you encouraged you may see some fat
pitches coming your way?" Yeah.
Well, I wouldn't do anything nearly so
noble as to withhold investing myself
just so that Greg could look good later
on.
[Applause]
Now if he if he gets any edge what I
believe I'll resent it that so the
uh now the the amount of cash we have
is we we we would spend
well we came pretty close to spending 10
billion not that long ago for example
but we'd spend a hundred billion I mean
and and those decisions are not tough to
make uh uh when when something is
offered that is that uh makes sense to
us and that we understand and uh offers
good value and where we don't worry
about losing. And the the one problem
with the investment business is
that things don't come along in an
orderly fashion and they never will. I
mean, it isn't like every day. Uh, you
know, the the long-term record is
sensational, but that is not a product.
And I've been
in, let's see, I've had
um 200 trading
days
times 80 years. And yeah, but at
uh 16 million trading days, it been we
kind of uh uh I mean 16,000 training
days. It it would be nice if every day
you got four opportunities or something
like that and you know you could and
they were expected to be equally
attractive. you know, if I if I was
running a numbers racket, you know,
every day would have the same expectancy
of that I would
keep 40% of whatever the handle was. And
so the only question would be is how
much we transacted. But we're not
running that kind of a business. And so
we're running a business which is very
very
opportunistic. And
uh Charlie always thought I did too many
things. Uh he thought if we did about
five things in our lifetime, we we could
we could uh we'd end up doing better
than if we did 50 and and uh and that we
never concentrated enough. Uh so
that we would rather
have if we've got 335 billion now in
treasuries, we would rather have
conditions that have developed where we
would have like 50 billion or something
like that. But that that just isn't the
way the business works.
And we have made a lot of money by not
wanting to be fully invested at all
times. And uh
um we don't think it's improper
actually for people who are passive
investors just to make a few simple
investments
and sit with their life uh sit for their
life and them.
But we've made the decision to be in the
business. So uh we think we can do a
little better than
that by behaving in a very irregular
manner. But if you told me that I had to
invest
uh well our let's say that we have a
roughly 40 billion a year coming in and
we start with 335. If you told me I had
to
invest 50 billion every year till we got
down to 50 billion, that would be the
dumbest thing in the
world to invest in that manner. Things
get extraordinarily
attractive very
occasionally. The long-term trend is up.
Nobody
knows. And uh I certainly don't know.
Greg doesn't know. Ajet doesn't know.
Nobody knows what the market is going to
do tomorrow, next week, next month. And
nobody knows what business is going to
do tomorrow, next week or next month.
But they spend all their time talking
about it because
it's it's easy to talk about and uh but
it it it has no value. Uh I've never
found anybody I wanted to listen to on
the subject. And uh the on the other
hand, I found the leafing through things
like that big Japanese book that I can't
read anymore. Uh the uh it's it's a
that's a treasure hunt. And every now
and then you find something
and
occasionally, very occasionally, but
it'll happen again that uh I don't know
when it won't. It could be next week. It
could be 5 years off, but it won't be 50
years off. He will have we will be
bombarded with offerings that that uh
we'll be glad we have the cash for. And
it'd be a lot more fun if it would
happen tomorrow, but it's very unlikely
to happen tomorrow. Very very unlikely
to happen tomorrow, but it's not
unlikely to happen in 5 years. And then
it gets the probabilities get higher as
you go along. It's kind of like death. I
mean, if you're 10 years old, the
chances that you're going to die the
next day are low. If you get to be
115 or something like that, it's almost
a
cinch. Particularly if you're a male. I
mean, all the records are held by
females in terms of age. And
uh I I tried to get Charlie to have a
sex change so he could test out
whether and
[Applause]
uh he did pretty well for being a male.
I'll put it that
way. Okay.